
# Staking

## MINT Staking
Stakers stake their MINT to earn rebase rewards. Rebase rewards are minted every 2200 Ethereum blocks (8 Hours) as long as there are enough assets in the treasury to back each token with the equivalent of 0.000001 ETH.

The protocols runway is the number of days ShuffleDAO could maintain its current rate of emissions without any inflows to the treasury or changes to the reward rate. Staking is a passive, long-term strategy.

When you stake, you lock MINT and receive an equal amount of sMINT. Your sMINT balance rebases up automatically at the end of every epoch. sMINT is transferable and composable with other protocols and NFT projects.

When you unstake, you burn sMINT and receive an equal amount of MINT. Unstaking means the user will forfeit the upcoming rebase reward. 
:::note
The forfeited reward is only applicable to the unstaked amount; the remaining staked MINT (if any) will continue to receive rebase rewards.
:::


## NFT Staking
Genesis CryptoHoots and DAO auction NFTs can be staked in exchange for a portion of baking fees generated by the protocol. NFT staking follows the same 2200 block rebase cycle as MINT staking. Staking rewards are directly tied to baking fees and not overall treasury assets or the reward rate. 

## Staking Benefits

Staking MINT allows the user to participate in and benefit from the ShuffleDAO ecosystem. Only staked MINT is eligible for participation in protocol governance and stakers also ensure their position scales with overall MINT emissions.

## How Does the Reward Rate Affect Staking?
Staking rates are representations of the current rebase rate, number of stakers and existing supply.

The APY is calculated from the reward yield (a.k.a rebase rate) using the following equation:

$$
APY = (1+ rewardYield)^{1095} - 1
$$

It raises to the power of 1095 because a rebase happens 3 times daily (365 * 3 = 1095).

Reward yield is determined by the following equation:

$$
rewardYield = MINT_{distributed} / MINT_{totalStaked}
$$

The number of MINT distributed to the staking contract is calculated from MINT total supply using the following equation:

$$
MINT_{distributed} = MINT_{totalSupply} \times rewardRate
$$

:::note
The reward rate is subject to change by the protocol team.
:::